+++
date = "2024-08-07T11:28:59.9772896Z"
publishDate = "2024-08-07T11:28:59.9772896Z"
title = "BM25"
originalUrl = "https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Okapi_BM25"
comment = "from simonw on HN:\n\n> BM25 is similar to TF/IDF. In both cases, the key idea is to consider statistics of the overall corpus as part of relevance calculations. If the user searches for \"charities in new orleans\" in a corpus where \"new orleans\" is only represented in a few documents, those should clearly rank highly. If the corpus has \"new orleans\" in almost every document then the term \"charity\" is more important.\n>\n> PostgreSQL FTS cannot do this, because it doesn't maintain statistics for word frequencies across the entire corpus. This severely limits what it can implement in terms of relevance scoring - each result is scored based purely on if the search terms are present or not.\n\nfrom https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41173986"
+++

### My thoughts

from simonw on HN:

> BM25 is similar to TF/IDF. In both cases, the key idea is to consider statistics of the overall corpus as part of relevance calculations. If the user searches for "charities in new orleans" in a corpus where "new orleans" is only represented in a few documents, those should clearly rank highly. If the corpus has "new orleans" in almost every document then the term "charity" is more important.
>
> PostgreSQL FTS cannot do this, because it doesn't maintain statistics for word frequencies across the entire corpus. This severely limits what it can implement in terms of relevance scoring - each result is scored based purely on if the search terms are present or not.

from https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41173986

Read the article: [BM25](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Okapi_BM25)
